README.md, before:

# rust-coinselect

A blockchain-agnostic coin selection library built in Rust.

## Technical Scope

The library will perform coin selection via various algorithms through a well-documented API. The API will be generic in nature and will not assume any Bitcoin structure or methods. It can be used for any UTXO-based blockchain.

The following algorithms are implemented from scratch in Rust:

- Knapsack
- Branch and Bound
- Lowest Larger
- First-In-First-Out
- Single-Random-Draw

The library will have individual APIs for each algorithm and provide a wrapper API `select_coin()` which will perform selection via each algorithm and return the result with the least waste metric.

Bitcoin specific example is given [here](./examples/bitcoin_crate/).

In general the example usage is given below,

```rust
let utxos: Vec<UTXO> = vec![<utxo1>, <utxo2>, ..., <utxon>]; // List of the available UTXOs
let output_groups: Vec<OutputGroup> = utxos.iter().map(|utxo| convert_utxo_to_output(utxo)).collect();
let options = CoinSelectionOpt {
    target_value: 4_000_000u64,
    target_fee_rate: 0.5f32,
    long_term_feerate: Some(0.3f32),
    min_absolute_fee: 1000u64,
    base_weight: 72u32,
    change_weight: 18u32,
    change_cost: 250u64,
    cost_per_input: 300u64,
    cost_per_output: 250u64,
    min_change_value: 1_000u64,
    excess_strategy: ExcessStrategy::ToChange,
};

let selection_output = select_coin(&output_groups, options);
println!("Estimated waste = {}", selection_output.waste);
println!("Indexes of the selected utxos = {}", selection_output.selected_inputs);

let selected_utxos: Vec<UTXO> = selection_output.iter().map(|index| utxos[index]).collect();
```

The `convert_utxo_to_output` logic should be implemented by yourself for the respective blockchain protocol.
Note that we can group multiple utxos into a single [`OutputGroup`].

Other characteristics of the library:

- Well-documented code, helpful in understanding coin selection theory.
- Minimal possible dependency footprint.
- Minimum possible MSRV (Minimum Supported Rust Version).

## Community

The dev community gathers in a small corner of Discord [here](https://discord.gg/TSSAB3g4Zf) (say hello if you drop there from this readme).

Dev discussions predominantly happen via FOSS (Free and Open-Source Software) best practices, and by using GitHub as the Community Forum.

The Issues, PRs, and Discussions are where all the heavy lifting happens.

Commit message:

Made readability improvements - Edited readme.md for improving readability - Added clarity to the description of different varaibles in the 'types'file - Edoted the development.md file for minor readability improvements

README.md, after:

# rust-coinselect

A blockchain-agnostic coin selection library built in Rust.

## Technical Scope

The library performs coin selection via various algorithms through a well-documented API. The API is generic in nature and does not assume any structure or method specific to bitcoin. It is designed to be used by any UTXO-based blockchain.

The following algorithms are implemented from scratch in Rust:

- Knapsack
- Branch and Bound
- Lowest Larger
- First-In-First-Out
- Single-Random-Draw

The library has individual APIs for each algorithm. It also has a wrapper API `select_coin()` which performs selection via each algorithm and return the selection result with the least waste metric.

Bitcoin specific example is given [here](./examples/bitcoin_crate/).

An example usage is given below

```rust
let utxos: Vec<UTXO> = vec![<utxo1>, <utxo2>, ..., <utxon>]; // List of the available UTXOs
let output_groups: Vec<OutputGroup> = utxos.iter().map(|utxo| convert_utxo_to_output(utxo)).collect();
let options = CoinSelectionOpt {
    target_value: 4_000_000u64, // Amount that needs to be spent
    target_fee_rate: 0.5f32, // User's preferred fee rate
    long_term_feerate: Some(0.3f32), // Estimate of the fee rate that the wallet might need to pay to spend the UTXOs in the future
    min_absolute_fee: 1000u64, // Lowest possible transaction fees required to get a transaction included in a block 
    base_weight: 72u32, // The weight of the transaction, including all inputs and outputs
    change_weight: 18u32, // Additional weight added to a transaction when a change output is created
    change_cost: 250u64, // Total cost associated with creating and later spending a change output in a transaction
    avg_input_weight: 300u64, // Estimate of an average input's weight 
    avg_output_weight: 250u64, // Estimate of an average output's weight
    min_change_value: 1_000u64, // Smallest amount of change that is considered acceptable in a transaction considering the dust limits. 
    excess_strategy: ExcessStrategy::ToChange, // Strategy to handle the excess value (input - output)
};

let selection_output = select_coin(&output_groups, options);
println!("Estimated waste = {}", selection_output.waste);
println!("Indexes of the selected utxos = {}", selection_output.selected_inputs);

let selected_utxos: Vec<UTXO> = selection_output.iter().map(|index| utxos[index]).collect();
```

The `convert_utxo_to_output` logic should be implemented by the user for the respective blockchain protocol.
Note that we can group multiple utxos into a single [`OutputGroup`].

Other characteristics of the library:

- Well-documented code, helpful in understanding coin selection theory.
- Minimal possible dependency footprint.
- Minimal possible MSRV (Minimum Supported Rust Version).

## Community

The dev community gathers in a small corner of Discord [here](https://discord.gg/TSSAB3g4Zf) (say hello if you drop there from this readme).

Dev discussions predominantly happen via FOSS (Free and Open-Source Software) best practices, and by using GitHub as the Community Forum.

The Issues, PRs, and Discussions are where all the heavy lifting happens.
